# covid-19_prediction
COVID-19 declared as a global pandemic by WHO, has emerged as the most aggressive disease, impacting more than 90% countries of the world. The number of infected and deceased patients has been increasing at an alarming rate in almost all the affected nations. Forecasting techniques can be inculcated thereby assisting in designing better strategies and in taking productive decisions. India being the second most populous country of the world, the virus is spreading as a community level transmitter. Therefore, it becomes really important to analyse the possible impact of COVID-19 in India and forecast how it will behave in the days to come. Machine learning (ML) based forecasting mechanisms have proved their significance to anticipate in perioperative outcomes to improve the decision making on the future course of actions. The ML models have long been used in many application domains which needed the identification and prioritization of adverse factors for a threat. This study describes the capability of ML models to forecast the number of upcoming patients affected by COVID-19 which is presently considered as a potential threat to mankind. In particular, four standard forecasting models, such as Linear Regression (LR), Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO), Support Vector Machine (SVM), and Exponential Smoothing (ES) have been used in this study to forecast the threatening factors of COVID-19. Three types of predictions are made by each of the models, such as the number of newly infected cases, the number of deaths, and the number of recoveries in the next 10 days. These techniques assess the situations of the past thereby enabling better predictions about the situation to occur in the future.
